In the last lecture, we set up Firebase to have some data there,
we added some data to the database and to the storage.
Now it's time to head back to the project and fetch that data.
We already make a HTTP request and I basically want to do the same,
I want to get the data from Firebase but now I then also want to update the code to use that data.
So for that first of all, let's see how we can fetch it from Firebase, in the end
we want to fetch this first post here,
right.
So what we can do is we can simply fetch all posts and then loop through all of them to basically create
a card for each post we have in that posts array here.
So if you click on posts, you can use this URL here to make your HTTP request,
so let's go back to the application and replace URL with this URL here. Now important,
you also have to add .json at the end,
this is simply a requirement from Firebase to really target the right API endpoint.
Now since we also use this with the cache then network strategy, let's go to the service worker already and
make sure we update our URL parsing there too.
Here we we're looking for URLs reaching to the get route,
now let's use our new route here to make sure that every request which reaches this route is handled
correctly here and we store the answer, though
this is exactly what we'll also work on in this module because we'll store it differently later, not in
the cache but for now, I'll leave it like that.
So back in the feed.js file, now we're reaching out to this page,
it should no longer be a post request,
instead it should be a normal get request, so we can get rid of all that configuration on our fetch method
here.
Now we fetch the data and the one thing I want to change now is here. Right now I just create one card
and that's a dummy card,
I now want to create a card based on the data
I actually fetched and actually, that could be more than one card because maybe I have more than one
card I fetched,
so I need a whole new way of creating these cards. For that, I'll create a new function and I'll name
it
updateUI.
So here in updateUI,
I
now expect to get the data
and now I want to loop through it.
So I'll create a normal for loop here starting with i equal to zero, looping as long as it's
smaller than the data length and incrementing it, so a normal for loop here and inside there,
I want to call create card and pass that data piece
I'm currently at to that method, so that I create a card for the data I'm currently at.
Now Card, Create Card doesn't expect to get any data yet, so let's add this too
and now we should use the data we get
here to really create a card using the data. That starts here with the background image
for example, we no longer need to use that dummy image here,
in the end we will still use this because that's what I uploaded
but I theoretically want to be able to use any image and later in the course once we really upload our
own images, this definitely becomes important.
So I'll simply simply restructure this to add a dynamic piece to that string here.
I want to access data image here to stay in line with the name I chose here because in the end what
we'll loop through is all the data pieces in posts,
so what we pass to create cards will be a single post, so we can access the image property on this
because of the Javascript-like structure we have in that Firebase database here.
So I can access image here and simply route to that,
that's pretty good.
Let's see if that works, we'll see it in,
well in the next lectures. Another thing I want to do is the title here of course. We do have a title
in our database too, here, title,
so let's use that.
So I will simply replace this string with data
title.
We also have a location we can output,
so here where I say in San Francisco, I want to output data.location because again, we have that here
in San Francisco.
So this is now all using the data from my database,
so from the back-end and I'm creating a card when looping through it.
So now the only thing we have to do is call updateUI once we get the data.
So here in fetch, we receive the data
and now of course we want to no longer call create card here but call updateUI.
However passing the data like that won't work because the data we get back here when we reach out to
posts is actually not an array
but since we have an identifier here, it's an object where we have key-value pairs.
The keys will be these things
here, so our individual post IDs basically and the values will then be the objects, so we have a Javascript
object and not an array.
So we have two ways of fixing this,
we could use a for/in loop here simply but I want to keep this function flexible. So what I'll instead do is I'll simply
convert data here to an array and to do this really cleanly, I'll convert data here to an array.
So I will simply loop through all the keys in data and I'll create a new array,
so data array is what I want to get and it's an empty array at the beginning and then I will simply
say data array push and push data key,
so I push all the values, so the objects we have here in these key-value pairs onto this array and therefore
I create a new array which only holds the objects here with these properties.
So that's my data array and now I'm passing data array to updateUI. Now clear cards can also go to updateUI
here at the beginning before we create all these cards,
now in the cache, I also want to call updateUI
and of course there since we receive the data here from the cache which is our stored response in the
end, I also want to execute this transformation code here.
So I'll also do that here
and if you want to avoid repeating yourself here, you can of course outsource this into its own method
too, I'll leave it like this for now.
So pass the data array, we need to create that variable
therefore here and now we also update the UI from cache. In our cache if we have a look at it, we will recognize
that URL and there we will add it to that dynamic cache, so that should still work.
So with that, we made some changes and now we should really render the content from our Firebase back-end,
let's see if that works.
Now to see this, you of course have to make sure that your development server is running,
for me it still is
and then go back to your application and go to application and make sure to clear the storage because we
changed so much even about the data and how we get it,
I don't want to have anything old in the cache. So let's simply clear the storage here and then reload
and we already see
this seems to work because this is not coming from cache,
instead this should be coming from the web
and here we can confirm it from web,
this is the first post object we get, seems to be converted correctly.
Now let's reload one more time,
this still looks good,
now let's reload again to see if it's coming from the cache too,
looks good and
now let's go offline and see if that works.
If I am offline now, it still works,
so we can still use or still see that card,
the key thing is this card is now really coming from Firebase and to prove this, let me change something
in Firebase.
So we have in San Francisco here now,
so let's change this to near Golden Gate.
Let's hit enter here to update that and let's go back to the application and reload and we see near Golden
Gate here, for a fraction of a second,
you saw in San Francisco because of our cache then network strategy which first fetch that from the cache
but now you see, it indeed is fetching it from the network and updating it from there.
So this is pretty cool,
now we have dynamic data,
now let's get back to why our current approach might not be the best
and how we could store dynamic data using indexedDB.